---
description: 'Settings related to formats'
sidebarTitle: 'Format Settings'
slug: /operations/settings/formats
title: 'Format Settings'
toc_max_heading_level: 2
doc_type: 'reference'
---

import {ExperimentalBadge} from '/snippets/components/ExperimentalBadge/ExperimentalBadge.jsx'
import {BetaBadge} from '/snippets/components/BetaBadge/BetaBadge.jsx'

These settings are autogenerated from [source](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/src/Core/FormatFactorySettings.h).

{/* <!--AUTOGENERATED_START--> */}
## allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Allows to parse Bool values inside Variant type from special text bool values like "on", "off", "enable", "disable", etc.

## bool_false_representation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | false |



Text to represent false bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.

## bool_true_representation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | true |



Text to represent true bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.

## column_names_for_schema_inference    



The list of column names to use in schema inference for formats without column names. The format: 'column1,column2,column3,...'

## cross_to_inner_join_rewrite    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1 |



Use inner join instead of comma/cross join if there are joining expressions in the WHERE section. Values: 0 - no rewrite, 1 - apply if possible for comma/cross, 2 - force rewrite all comma joins, cross - if possible

## date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Dynamically trim the trailing zeros of datetime64 values to adjust the output scale to [0, 3, 6],
corresponding to 'seconds', 'milliseconds', and 'microseconds'

## date_time_input_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| DateTimeInputFormat | basic |



Allows choosing a parser of the text representation of date and time.

The setting does not apply to [date and time functions](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md).

Possible values:

- `'best_effort'` — Enables extended parsing.

    ClickHouse can parse the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` format and all [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) date and time formats. For example, `'2018-06-08T01:02:03.000Z'`.

- `'best_effort_us'` — Similar to `best_effort` (see the difference in [parseDateTimeBestEffortUS](../../sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions#parsedatetimebesteffortus)

- `'basic'` — Use basic parser.

    ClickHouse can parse only the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` or `YYYY-MM-DD` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56` or `2019-08-20`.

Cloud default value: `'best_effort'`.

See also:

- [DateTime data type.](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md)

## date_time_output_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| DateTimeOutputFormat | simple |



Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of date and time.

Possible values:

- `simple` - Simple output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56`. The calculation is performed according to the data type's time zone (if present) or server time zone.

- `iso` - ISO output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time in [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ` format. For example, `2019-08-20T10:18:56Z`. Note that output is in UTC (`Z` means UTC).

- `unix_timestamp` - Unix timestamp output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time in [Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) format. For example `1566285536`.

See also:

- [DateTime data type.](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md)

## date_time_overflow_behavior    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| DateTimeOverflowBehavior | ignore |



Defines the behavior when [Date](../../sql-reference/data-types/date.md), [Date32](../../sql-reference/data-types/date32.md), [DateTime](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md), [DateTime64](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime64.md) or integers are converted into Date, Date32, DateTime or DateTime64 but the value cannot be represented in the result type.

Possible values:

- `ignore` — Silently ignore overflows. Result are undefined.
- `throw` — Throw an exception in case of overflow.
- `saturate` — Saturate the result. If the value is smaller than the smallest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the smallest representable value. If the value is bigger than the largest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the largest representable value.

Default value: `ignore`.

## dictionary_use_async_executor    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Execute a pipeline for reading dictionary source in several threads. It's supported only by dictionaries with local CLICKHOUSE source.

## errors_output_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | CSV |



Method to write Errors to text output.

## exact_rows_before_limit    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, ClickHouse will provide exact value for rows_before_limit_at_least statistic, but with the cost that the data before limit will have to be read completely

## format_avro_schema_registry_url    



For AvroConfluent format: Confluent Schema Registry URL.

## format_binary_max_array_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1073741824 |



The maximum allowed size for Array in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit

## format_binary_max_string_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1073741824 |



The maximum allowed size for String in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit

## format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| CapnProtoEnumComparingMode | by_values |



How to map ClickHouse Enum and CapnProto Enum

## format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use autogenerated CapnProto schema when format_schema is not set

## format_csv_allow_double_quotes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If it is set to true, allow strings in double quotes.

## format_csv_allow_single_quotes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If it is set to true, allow strings in single quotes.

## format_csv_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Char | , |



The character to be considered as a delimiter in CSV data. If setting with a string, a string has to have a length of 1.

## format_csv_null_representation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | \N |



Custom NULL representation in CSV format

## format_custom_escaping_rule    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| EscapingRule | Escaped |



Field escaping rule (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_field_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | 	 |



Delimiter between fields (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_result_after_delimiter    



Suffix after result set (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_result_before_delimiter    



Prefix before result set (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_after_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | 
 |



Delimiter after field of the last column (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_before_delimiter    



Delimiter before field of the first column (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_between_delimiter    



Delimiter between rows (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enables or disables showing secrets in `SHOW` and `SELECT` queries for tables, databases,
table functions, and dictionaries.

User wishing to see secrets must also have
[`display_secrets_in_show_and_select` server setting](../server-configuration-parameters/settings#display_secrets_in_show_and_select)
turned on and a
[`displaySecretsInShowAndSelect`](/sql-reference/statements/grant#displaysecretsinshowandselect) privilege.

Possible values:

-   0 — Disabled.
-   1 — Enabled.

## format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name    



The name of column that will be used for storing/writing object names in [JSONObjectEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONObjectEachRow) format.
Column type should be String. If value is empty, default names `row_{i}`will be used for object names.

## format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use autogenerated Protobuf when format_schema is not set

## format_regexp    



Regular expression (for Regexp format)

## format_regexp_escaping_rule    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| EscapingRule | Raw |



Field escaping rule (for Regexp format)

## format_regexp_skip_unmatched    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip lines unmatched by regular expression (for Regexp format)

## format_schema    



This parameter is useful when you are using formats that require a schema definition, such as [Cap'n Proto](https://capnproto.org/) or [Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). The value depends on the format.

## format_schema_message_name    



Define the name of the required message in the schema defined in `format_schema`.
To maintain compatibility with the legacy format_schema format (`file_name:message_name`):
- If `format_schema_message_name` is not specified, the message name is inferred from the `message_name` part of the legacy `format_schema` value.
- If `format_schema_message_name` is specified while using the legacy format, an error will be raised.

## format_schema_source    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | file |



Define the source of `format_schema`.
Possible values:
- 'file' (default): The `format_schema` is the name of a schema file located in the `format_schemas` directory.
- 'string': The `format_schema` is the literal content of the schema.
- 'query': The `format_schema` is a query to retrieve the schema.
When `format_schema_source` is set to 'query', the following conditions apply:
- The query must return exactly one value: a single row with a single string column.
- The result of the query is treated as the schema content.
- This result is cached locally in the `format_schemas` directory.
- You can clear the local cache using the command: `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE FOR Files`.
- Once cached, identical queries are not executed to fetch the schema again until the cache is explicitly cleared
- In addition to local cache files, Protobuf messages are also cached in memory. Even after clearing the local cache files, the in-memory cache must be cleared using `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE [FOR Protobuf]` to fully refresh the schema.
- Run the query `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE` to clear the cache for both cache files and Protobuf messages schemas at once.

## format_template_resultset    



Path to file which contains format string for result set (for Template format)

## format_template_resultset_format    



Format string for result set (for Template format)

## format_template_row    



Path to file which contains format string for rows (for Template format)

## format_template_row_format    



Format string for rows (for Template format)

## format_template_rows_between_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | 
 |



Delimiter between rows (for Template format)

## format_tsv_null_representation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | \N |



Custom NULL representation in TSV format

## input_format_allow_errors_num    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



Sets the maximum number of acceptable errors when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).

The default value is 0.

Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`.

If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_num`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.

If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.

## input_format_allow_errors_ratio    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Float | 0 |



Sets the maximum percentage of errors allowed when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).
The percentage of errors is set as a floating-point number between 0 and 1.

The default value is 0.

Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_num`.

If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.

If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.

## input_format_allow_seeks    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow seeks while reading in ORC/Parquet/Arrow input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow missing columns while reading Arrow input formats

## input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore case when matching Arrow columns with CH columns.

## input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Arrow

## input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



For Avro/AvroConfluent format: when field is not found in schema use default value instead of error

## input_format_avro_null_as_default    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



For Avro/AvroConfluent format: insert default in case of null and non Nullable colum

## input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Read data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes input format

## input_format_binary_read_json_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Read values of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) data type as JSON [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) values in RowBinary input format.

## input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format BSON.

## input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format CapnProto

## input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If it is set true, \\r will be allowed at end of line not followed by 

## input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore extra columns in CSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CSV input as default values

## input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Allow to use spaces and tabs(\\t) as field delimiter in the CSV strings

## input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When reading Array from CSV, expect that its elements were serialized in nested CSV and then put into string. Example: \"[\"\"Hello\"\", \"\"world\"\", \"\"42\"\"\"\" TV\"\"]\". Braces around array can be omitted.

## input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If it set to true, then separate columns written in CSV format can be deserialized to Tuple column.

## input_format_csv_detect_header    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Automatically detect header with names and types in CSV format

## input_format_csv_empty_as_default    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Treat empty fields in CSV input as default values.

## input_format_csv_enum_as_number    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Treat inserted enum values in CSV formats as enum indices

## input_format_csv_skip_first_lines    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in CSV format

## input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip trailing empty lines in CSV format

## input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Trims spaces and tabs (\\t) characters at the beginning and end in CSV strings

## input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if CSV data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Interpret quoted tuples in the input data as a value of type String.

## input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in CSV format

## input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Allow to set default value to column when CSV field deserialization failed on bad value

## input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore extra columns in CustomSeparated input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CustomSeparated input as default values

## input_format_custom_detect_header    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Automatically detect header with names and types in CustomSeparated format

## input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip trailing empty lines in CustomSeparated format

## input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



When performing `INSERT` queries, replace omitted input column values with default values of the respective columns. This option applies to [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats), [CSV](/interfaces/formats/CSV), [TabSeparated](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparated), [TSKV](/interfaces/formats/TSKV), [Parquet](/interfaces/formats/Parquet), [Arrow](/interfaces/formats/Arrow), [Avro](/interfaces/formats/Avro), [ORC](/interfaces/formats/ORC), [Native](/interfaces/formats/Native) formats and formats with `WithNames`/`WithNamesAndTypes` suffixes.

<Note>
When this option is enabled, extended table metadata are sent from server to client. It consumes additional computing resources on the server and can reduce performance.
</Note>

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Force initialize omitted fields with null values

## input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Ignore extra columns in Hive Text input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in Hive Text input as default values

## input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Char |  |



Delimiter between collection(array or map) items in Hive Text File

## input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Char |  |



Delimiter between fields in Hive Text File

## input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Char |  |



Delimiter between a pair of map key/values in Hive Text File

## input_format_import_nested_json    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enables or disables the insertion of JSON data with nested objects.

Supported formats:

- [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

See also:

- [Usage of Nested Structures](/integrations/data-formats/json/other-formats#accessing-nested-json-objects) with the `JSONEachRow` format.

## input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Deserialization of IPv4 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Deserialization of IPV6 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Allow variable number of columns in rows in JSONCompact/JSONCompactEachRow input formats.
Ignore extra columns in rows with more columns than expected and treat missing columns as default values.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Insert default values for missing elements in JSON object while parsing named tuple.
This setting works only when setting `input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects` is enabled.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_empty_as_default    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, replace empty input fields in JSON with default values. For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.

Possible values:

+ 0 — Disable.
+ 1 — Enable.

## input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Ignore unknown keys in json object for named tuples.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Ignore unnecessary fields and not parse them. Enabling this may not throw exceptions on json strings of invalid format or with duplicated fields

## input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will use Array(Dynamic) type for JSON arrays with values of different data types.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types=1;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"a" : [42, "hello", [1, 2, 3]]}');
```

```response
┌─name─┬─type───────────┐
│ a    │ Array(Dynamic) │
└──────┴────────────────┘
```

```sql
SET input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types=0;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"a" : [42, "hello", [1, 2, 3]]}');
```

```response
┌─name─┬─type─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ a    │ Tuple(Nullable(Int64), Nullable(String), Array(Nullable(Int64))) │
└──────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow to use String type for JSON keys that contain only `Null`/`{}`/`[]` in data sample during schema inference.
In JSON formats any value can be read as String, and we can avoid errors like `Cannot determine type for column 'column_name' by first 25000 rows of data, most likely this column contains only Nulls or empty Arrays/Maps` during schema inference
by using String type for keys with unknown types.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings = 1, input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESCRIBE format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');
SELECT * FROM format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');
```

Result:
```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Array(Nullable(Int64)), b Nullable(String), c Nullable(String), d Nullable(String), e Array(Nullable(String))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘

┌─obj────────────────────────────┐
│ ([1,2,3],'hello',NULL,'{}',[]) │
└────────────────────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Deserialize maps columns as JSON arrays of tuples.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_max_depth    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1000 |



Maximum depth of a field in JSON. This is not a strict limit, it does not have to be applied precisely.

## input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Parse named tuple columns as JSON objects.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow parsing JSON arrays as strings in JSON input formats.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings = 1;
SELECT arr, toTypeName(arr), JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr)[3] from format(JSONEachRow, 'arr String', '{"arr" : [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]]}');
```

Result:
```
┌─arr───────────────────┬─toTypeName(arr)─┬─arrayElement(JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr), 3)─┐
│ [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]] │ String          │ [1,2,3]                                   │
└───────────────────────┴─────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow parsing bools as numbers in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow parsing bools as strings in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow parsing numbers as strings in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow parsing JSON objects as strings in JSON input formats.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings = 1;
CREATE TABLE test (id UInt64, obj String, date Date) ENGINE=Memory();
INSERT INTO test FORMAT JSONEachRow {"id" : 1, "obj" : {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"}, "date" : "2020-01-01"};
SELECT * FROM test;
```

Result:

```
┌─id─┬─obj──────────────────────┬───────date─┐
│  1 │ {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"} │ 2020-01-01 │
└────┴──────────────────────────┴────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Throw an exception if JSON string contains bad escape sequence in JSON input formats. If disabled, bad escape sequences will remain as is in the data.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer named Tuple from JSON objects.
The resulting named Tuple will contain all elements from all corresponding JSON objects from sample data.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : 42, "b" : "Hello"}}, {"obj" : {"a" : 43, "c" : [1, 2, 3]}}, {"obj" : {"d" : {"e" : 42}}}')
```

Result:

```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Nullable(Int64), b Nullable(String), c Array(Nullable(Int64)), d Tuple(e Nullable(Int64))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if JSON data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Use String type instead of an exception in case of ambiguous paths in JSON objects during named tuples inference

## input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



For JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata input formats, if this setting is set to 1,
the types from metadata in input data will be compared with the types of the corresponding columns from the table.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_max_block_size_bytes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



Limits the size of the blocks formed during data parsing in input formats in bytes. Used in row based input formats when block is formed on ClickHouse side.
0 means no limit in bytes.

## input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 33554432 |



The maximum amount of data in bytes to read for automatic schema inference.

## input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 25000 |



The maximum rows of data to read for automatic schema inference.

## input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



The number of columns in inserted MsgPack data. Used for automatic schema inference from data.

## input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Match columns from table in MySQL dump and columns from ClickHouse table by names

## input_format_mysql_dump_table_name    



Name of the table in MySQL dump from which to read data

## input_format_native_allow_types_conversion    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow data types conversion in Native input format

## input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Read data types in binary format instead of type names in Native input format

## input_format_null_as_default    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Enables or disables the initialization of [NULL](/sql-reference/syntax#literals) fields with [default values](/sql-reference/statements/create/table#default_values), if data type of these fields is not [nullable](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable).
If column type is not nullable and this setting is disabled, then inserting `NULL` causes an exception. If column type is nullable, then `NULL` values are inserted as is, regardless of this setting.

This setting is applicable for most input formats.

For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.

Possible values:

- 0 — Inserting `NULL` into a not nullable column causes an exception.
- 1 — `NULL` fields are initialized with default column values.

## input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow missing columns while reading ORC input formats

## input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore case when matching ORC columns with CH columns.

## input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Treat ORC dictionary encoded columns as LowCardinality columns while reading ORC files.

## input_format_orc_filter_push_down    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



When reading ORC files, skip whole stripes or row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions, min/max statistics or bloom filter in the ORC metadata.

## input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | GMT |



The time zone name for ORC row reader, the default ORC row reader's time zone is GMT.

## input_format_orc_row_batch_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Int64 | 100000 |



Batch size when reading ORC stripes.

## input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format ORC

## input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use a faster ORC decoder implementation.

## input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use geo column parser to convert Array(UInt8) into Point/Linestring/Polygon/MultiLineString/MultiPolygon types

## input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow missing columns while reading Parquet input formats

## input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE expressions and bloom filter in the Parquet metadata.

## input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore case when matching Parquet columns with CH columns.

## input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



When reading Parquet files, parse JSON columns as ClickHouse JSON Column.

## input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Enable row group prefetching during parquet parsing. Currently, only single-threaded parsing can prefetch.

## input_format_parquet_filter_push_down    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions and min/max statistics in the Parquet metadata.

## input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 8192 |



Min bytes required for local read (file) to do seek, instead of read with ignore in Parquet input format

## input_format_parquet_local_time_as_utc    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Determines the data type used by schema inference for Parquet timestamps with isAdjustedToUTC=false. If true: DateTime64(..., 'UTC'), if false: DateTime64(...). Neither behavior is fully correct as ClickHouse doesn't have a data type for local wall-clock time. Counterintuitively, 'true' is probably the less incorrect option, because formatting the 'UTC' timestamp as String will produce representation of the correct local time.

## input_format_parquet_max_block_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| NonZeroUInt64 | 65409 |



Max block size for parquet reader.

## input_format_parquet_memory_high_watermark    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 4294967296 |



Approximate memory limit for Parquet reader v3. Limits how many row groups or columns can be read in parallel. When reading multiple files in one query, the limit is on total memory usage across those files.

## input_format_parquet_memory_low_watermark    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 2097152 |



Schedule prefetches more aggressively if memory usage is below than threshold. Potentially useful e.g. if there are many small bloom filters to read over network.

## input_format_parquet_page_filter_push_down    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Skip pages using min/max values from column index.

## input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 16744704 |



Average block bytes output by parquet reader

## input_format_parquet_preserve_order    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Avoid reordering rows when reading from Parquet files. Not recommended as row ordering is generally not guaranteed, and other parts of query pipeline may break it. Use `ORDER BY _row_number` instead.

## input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Parquet

## input_format_parquet_use_native_reader    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Use native parquet reader v1. It's relatively fast but unfinished. Deprecated.

## input_format_parquet_use_native_reader_v3    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use Parquet reader v3.

## input_format_parquet_use_offset_index    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Minor tweak to how pages are read from parquet file when no page filtering is used.

## input_format_parquet_verify_checksums    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Verify page checksums when reading parquet files.

## input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enable Google wrappers for regular non-nested columns, e.g. google.protobuf.StringValue 'str' for String column 'str'. For Nullable columns empty wrappers are recognized as defaults, and missing as nulls

## input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Indicate which field of protobuf oneof was found by means of setting enum value in a special colum

## input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format Protobuf

## input_format_record_errors_file_path    



Path of the file used to record errors while reading text formats (CSV, TSV).

## input_format_skip_unknown_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Enables or disables skipping insertion of extra data.

When writing data, ClickHouse throws an exception if input data contain columns that do not exist in the target table. If skipping is enabled, ClickHouse does not insert extra data and does not throw an exception.

Supported formats:

- [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [BSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/BSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [TSKV](/interfaces/formats/TSKV)
- All formats with suffixes WithNames/WithNamesAndTypes
- [MySQLDump](/interfaces/formats/MySQLDump)
- [Native](/interfaces/formats/Native)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_try_infer_dates    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `Date` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as dates, the result type will be `Date`, if at least one field was not parsed as date, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_datetimes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `DateTime64` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as datetimes, the result type will be `DateTime64`, if at least one field was not parsed as datetime, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When input_format_try_infer_datetimes is enabled, infer only DateTime64 but not DateTime types

## input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Try to infer floats in exponential notation while schema inference in text formats (except JSON, where exponent numbers are always inferred)

## input_format_try_infer_integers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer integers instead of floats in schema inference for text formats. If all numbers in the column from input data are integers, the result type will be `Int64`, if at least one number is float, the result type will be `Float64`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_variants    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type [`Variant`](../../sql-reference/data-types/variant.md) in schema inference for text formats when there is more than one possible type for column/array elements.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Ignore extra columns in TSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in TSV input as default values

## input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If it is set true, file function will read TSV format with \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## input_format_tsv_detect_header    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Automatically detect header with names and types in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_empty_as_default    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Treat empty fields in TSV input as default values.

## input_format_tsv_enum_as_number    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Treat inserted enum values in TSV formats as enum indices.

## input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip trailing empty lines in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in TSV format

## input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



For Values format: when parsing and interpreting expressions using template, check actual type of literal to avoid possible overflow and precision issues.

## input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser, deduce template of the SQL expression, try to parse all rows using template and then interpret expression for all rows.

## input_format_values_interpret_expressions    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser and try to interpret it as SQL expression.

## input_format_with_names_use_header    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Enables or disables checking the column order when inserting data.

To improve insert performance, we recommend disabling this check if you are sure that the column order of the input data is the same as in the target table.

Supported formats:

- [CSVWithNames](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNames)
- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNames](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNames)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNames](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNames](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNames)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNames](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNames)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_with_types_use_header    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Controls whether format parser should check if data types from the input data match data types from the target table.

Supported formats:

- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## insert_distributed_one_random_shard    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enables or disables random shard insertion into a [Distributed](/engines/table-engines/special/distributed) table when there is no distributed key.

By default, when inserting data into a `Distributed` table with more than one shard, the ClickHouse server will reject any insertion request if there is no distributed key. When `insert_distributed_one_random_shard = 1`, insertions are allowed and data is forwarded randomly among all shards.

Possible values:

- 0 — Insertion is rejected if there are multiple shards and no distributed key is given.
- 1 — Insertion is done randomly among all available shards when no distributed key is given.

## interval_output_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| IntervalOutputFormat | numeric |



Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of interval types.

Possible values:

-   `kusto` - KQL-style output format.

    ClickHouse outputs intervals in [KQL format](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-timespan-format-strings#the-constant-c-format-specifier). For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2.00:00:00`. Please note that for interval types of varying length (ie. `IntervalMonth` and `IntervalYear`) the average number of seconds per interval is taken into account.

-   `numeric` - Numeric output format.

    ClickHouse outputs intervals as their underlying numeric representation. For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2`.

See also:

-   [Interval](../../sql-reference/data-types/special-data-types/interval.md)

## into_outfile_create_parent_directories    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Automatically create parent directories when using INTO OUTFILE if they do not already exists.

## json_type_escape_dots_in_keys    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, dots in JSON keys will be escaped during parsing.

## output_format_arrow_compression_method    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| ArrowCompression | lz4_frame |



Compression method for Arrow output format. Supported codecs: lz4_frame, zstd, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use Arrow FIXED_SIZE_BINARY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.

## output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enable output LowCardinality type as Dictionary Arrow type

## output_format_arrow_string_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use Arrow String type instead of Binary for String columns

## output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Always use 64 bit integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format

## output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use signed integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format

## output_format_avro_codec    



Compression codec used for output. Possible values: 'null', 'deflate', 'snappy', 'zstd'.

## output_format_avro_rows_in_file    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1 |



Max rows in a file (if permitted by storage)

## output_format_avro_string_column_pattern    



For Avro format: regexp of String columns to select as AVRO string.

## output_format_avro_sync_interval    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 16384 |



Sync interval in bytes.

## output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes output format

## output_format_binary_write_json_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write values of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) data type as JSON [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) values in RowBinary output format.

## output_format_bson_string_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Use BSON String type instead of Binary for String columns.

## output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If it is set true, end of line in CSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If it set to true, then Tuples in CSV format are serialized as separate columns (that is, their nesting in the tuple is lost)

## output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Output trailing zeros when printing Decimal values. E.g. 1.230000 instead of 1.23.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_array_of_rows    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enables the ability to output all rows as a JSON array in the [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) format.

Possible values:

- 1 — ClickHouse outputs all rows as an array, each row in the `JSONEachRow` format.
- 0 — ClickHouse outputs each row separately in the `JSONEachRow` format.

**Example of a query with the enabled setting**

Query:

```sql
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 1;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;
```

Result:

```text
[
{"number":"0"},
{"number":"1"},
{"number":"2"}
]
```

**Example of a query with the disabled setting**

Query:

```sql
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 0;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;
```

Result:

```text
{"number":"0"}
{"number":"1"}
{"number":"2"}
```

## output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Controls escaping forward slashes for string outputs in JSON output format. This is intended for compatibility with JavaScript. Don't confuse with backslashes that are always escaped.

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Serialize maps columns as JSON arrays of tuples.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects.

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_pretty_print    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



This setting determines how nested structures such as Tuples, Maps, and Arrays are displayed within the `data` array when using the JSON output format.

For example, instead of output:

```json
"data":
[
  {
    "tuple": {"a":1,"b":2,"c":3},
    "array": [1,2,3],
    "map": {"a":1,"b":2,"c":3}
  }
],
```

The output will be formatted as:

```json
"data":
[
    {
        "tuple": {
            "a": 1,
            "b": 2,
            "c": 3
        },
        "array": [
            1,
            2,
            3
        ],
        "map": {
            "a": 1,
            "b": 2,
            "c": 3
        }
    }
],
```

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Controls quoting of 64-bit [floats](../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) when they are output in JSON* formats.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Controls quoting of 64-bit or bigger [integers](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) (like `UInt64` or `Int128`) when they are output in a [JSON](/interfaces/formats/JSON) format.
Such integers are enclosed in quotes by default. This behavior is compatible with most JavaScript implementations.

Possible values:

- 0 — Integers are output without quotes.
- 1 — Integers are enclosed in quotes.

## output_format_json_quote_decimals    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Controls quoting of decimals in JSON output formats.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_denormals    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Enables `+nan`, `-nan`, `+inf`, `-inf` outputs in [JSON](/interfaces/formats/JSON) output format.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

**Example**

Consider the following table `account_orders`:

```text
┌─id─┬─name───┬─duration─┬─period─┬─area─┐
│  1 │ Andrew │       20 │      0 │  400 │
│  2 │ John   │       40 │      0 │    0 │
│  3 │ Bob    │       15 │      0 │ -100 │
└────┴────────┴──────────┴────────┴──────┘
```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 0`, the query returns `null` values in output:

```sql
SELECT area/period FROM account_orders FORMAT JSON;
```

```json
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.003648093,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}
```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 1`, the query returns:

```json
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "inf"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-nan"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-inf"
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.000070241,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}
```

## output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Skip key value pairs with null value when serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects. It is only valid when output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects is true.

## output_format_json_validate_utf8    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Controls validation of UTF-8 sequences in JSON output formats, doesn't impact formats JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata, they always validate UTF-8.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, escape special characters in Markdown.

[Common Mark](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/#example-12) defines the following special characters that can be escaped by \:

```
! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / : ; < = > ? @ [ \ ] ^ _ ` { | } ~
```

Possible values:

+ 0 — Disable.
+ 1 — Enable.

## output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| MsgPackUUIDRepresentation | ext |



The way how to output UUID in MsgPack format.

## output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write data types in binary format instead of type names in Native output format

## output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write data of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) and [Dynamic](../../sql-reference/data-types/dynamic.md) columns in a flattened format (all types/paths as separate subcolumns).

## output_format_native_write_json_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write data of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) column as [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) column containing JSON strings instead of default native JSON serialization.

## output_format_orc_compression_block_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 262144 |



The size of the compression block in bytes for ORC output format.

## output_format_orc_compression_method    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| ORCCompression | zstd |



Compression method for ORC output format. Supported codecs: lz4, snappy, zlib, zstd, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Double | 0 |



For a string column in ORC output format, if the number of distinct values is greater than this fraction of the total number of non-null rows, turn off dictionary encoding. Otherwise dictionary encoding is enabled

## output_format_orc_row_index_stride    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 10000 |



Target row index stride in ORC output format

## output_format_orc_string_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use ORC String type instead of Binary for String columns

## output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | GMT |



The time zone name for ORC writer, the default ORC writer's time zone is GMT.

## output_format_parquet_batch_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| NonZeroUInt64 | 1024 |



Check page size every this many rows. Consider decreasing if you have columns with average values size above a few KBs.

## output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Double | 10.5 |



Approximate number of bits to use for each distinct value in parquet bloom filters. Estimated false positive rates:
  *  6   bits - 10%
  * 10.5 bits -  1%
  * 16.9 bits -  0.1%
  * 26.4 bits -  0.01%
  * 41   bits -  0.001%

## output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 134217728 |



Where in the parquet file to place the bloom filters. Bloom filters will be written in groups of approximately this size. In particular:
  * if 0, each row group's bloom filters are written immediately after the row group,
  * if greater than the total size of all bloom filters, bloom filters for all row groups will be accumulated in memory, then written together near the end of the file,
  * otherwise, bloom filters will be accumulated in memory and written out whenever their total size goes above this value.

## output_format_parquet_compliant_nested_types    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



In parquet file schema, use name 'element' instead of 'item' for list elements. This is a historical artifact of Arrow library implementation. Generally increases compatibility, except perhaps with some old versions of Arrow.

## output_format_parquet_compression_method    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| ParquetCompression | zstd |



Compression method for Parquet output format. Supported codecs: snappy, lz4, brotli, zstd, gzip, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_parquet_data_page_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1048576 |



Target page size in bytes, before compression.

## output_format_parquet_date_as_uint16    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write Date values as plain 16-bit numbers (read back as UInt16), instead of converting to a 32-bit parquet DATE type (read back as Date32).

## output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Write DateTime values as raw unix timestamp (read back as UInt32), instead of converting to milliseconds (read back as DateTime64(3)).

## output_format_parquet_enum_as_byte_array    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Write enum using parquet physical type: BYTE_ARRAY and logical type: ENUM

## output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use Parquet FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.

## output_format_parquet_geometadata    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow to write information about geo columns in parquet metadata and encode columns in WKB format.

## output_format_parquet_max_dictionary_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1048576 |



If dictionary size grows bigger than this many bytes, switch to encoding without dictionary. Set to 0 to disable dictionary encoding.

## output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Do Parquet encoding in multiple threads. Requires output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder.

## output_format_parquet_row_group_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1000000 |



Target row group size in rows.

## output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 536870912 |



Target row group size in bytes, before compression.

## output_format_parquet_string_as_string    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use Parquet String type instead of Binary for String columns.

## output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Use a faster Parquet encoder implementation.

## output_format_parquet_version    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| ParquetVersion | 2.latest |



Parquet format version for output format. Supported versions: 1.0, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.latest (default)

## output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Write bloom filters in parquet files. Requires output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder = true.

## output_format_parquet_write_checksums    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Put crc32 checksums in parquet page headers.

## output_format_parquet_write_page_index    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Write column index and offset index (i.e. statistics about each data page, which may be used for filter pushdown on read) into parquet files.

## output_format_pretty_color    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64Auto | auto |



Use ANSI escape sequences in Pretty formats. 0 - disabled, 1 - enabled, 'auto' - enabled if a terminal.

## output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1 |



Display column names in the footer if there are many table rows.

Possible values:

- 0 — No column names are displayed in the footer.
- 1 — Column names are displayed in the footer if row count is greater than or equal to the threshold value set by [output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows) (50 by default).

**Example**

Query:

```sql
SELECT *, toTypeName(*) FROM (SELECT * FROM system.numbers LIMIT 1000);
```

Result:

```response
      ┌─number─┬─toTypeName(number)─┐
   1. │      0 │ UInt64             │
   2. │      1 │ UInt64             │
   3. │      2 │ UInt64             │
   ...
 999. │    998 │ UInt64             │
1000. │    999 │ UInt64             │
      └─number─┴─toTypeName(number)─┘
```

## output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 50 |



Sets the minimum number of rows for which a footer with column names will be displayed if setting [output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names) is enabled.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, and the table is wide but short, the Pretty format will output it as the Vertical format does.
See `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk` and `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width` for detailed tuning of this behavior.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 10 |



The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of records in a chunk is not more than the specified value.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 5 |



The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of columns is greater than the specified value.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 250 |



The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the sum of lengths of columns in a table is at least the specified value, or if at least one value contains a newline character.

## output_format_pretty_glue_chunks    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64Auto | auto |



If the data rendered in Pretty formats arrived in multiple chunks, even after a delay, but the next chunk has the same column widths as the previous, use ANSI escape sequences to move back to the previous line and overwrite the footer of the previous chunk to continue it with the data of the new chunk. This makes the result more visually pleasant.

0 - disabled, 1 - enabled, 'auto' - enabled if a terminal.

## output_format_pretty_grid_charset    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | UTF-8 |



Charset for printing grid borders. Available charsets: ASCII, UTF-8 (default one).

## output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight every digit corresponding to the number of thousands, millions, etc. with underline.

## output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight trailing spaces with a gray color and underline.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 24 |



If the column name is too long, cut it to this length.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 4 |



Minimum characters to cut if the column name is too long.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 250 |



Maximum width to pad all values in a column in Pretty formats.

## output_format_pretty_max_rows    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1000 |



Rows limit for Pretty formats.

## output_format_pretty_max_value_width    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 10000 |



Maximum width of value to display in Pretty formats. If greater - it will be cut.
The value 0 means - never cut.

## output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 0 |



Only cut values (see the `output_format_pretty_max_value_width` setting) when it is not a single value in a block. Otherwise output it entirely, which is useful for the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` query.

## output_format_pretty_multiline_fields    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



If enabled, Pretty formats will render multi-line fields inside table cell, so the table's outline will be preserved.
If not, they will be rendered as is, potentially deforming the table (one upside of keeping it off is that copy-pasting multi-line values will be easier).

## output_format_pretty_row_numbers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Add row numbers before each row for pretty output format

## output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1000000 |



Print a readable number tip on the right side of the table if the block consists of a single number which exceeds this value (except 0)

## output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 50 |



Wait for the next block for up to specified number of milliseconds and squash it to the previous before writing.
This avoids frequent output of too small blocks, but still allows to display data in a streaming fashion.

## output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 1000 |



Output the pending block in pretty formats if more than the specified number of milliseconds has passed since the previous output.

## output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When serializing Nullable columns with Google wrappers, serialize default values as empty wrappers. If turned off, default and null values are not serialized

## output_format_schema    



The path to the file where the automatically generated schema will be saved in [Cap'n Proto](/interfaces/formats/CapnProto) or [Protobuf](/interfaces/formats/Protobuf) formats.

## output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Include column names in INSERT query

## output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64 | 65409 |



The maximum number  of rows in one INSERT statement.

## output_format_sql_insert_quote_names    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Quote column names with '`' characters

## output_format_sql_insert_table_name    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| String | table |



The name of table in the output INSERT query

## output_format_sql_insert_use_replace    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Use REPLACE statement instead of INSERT

## output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If it is set true, end of line in TSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



If true escape ' with '', otherwise quoted with \\'

## output_format_write_statistics    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Write statistics about read rows, bytes, time elapsed in suitable output formats.

Enabled by default

## precise_float_parsing    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Prefer more precise (but slower) float parsing algorithm

## regexp_dict_allow_hyperscan    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Allow regexp_tree dictionary using Hyperscan library.

## regexp_dict_flag_case_insensitive    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Use case-insensitive matching for a regexp_tree dictionary. Can be overridden in individual expressions with (?i) and (?-i).

## regexp_dict_flag_dotall    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Allow '.' to match newline characters for a regexp_tree dictionary.

## rows_before_aggregation    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, ClickHouse will provide exact value for rows_before_aggregation statistic, represents the number of rows read before aggregatio

## schema_inference_hints    



The list of column names and types to use as hints in schema inference for formats without schema.

Example:

Query:
```sql
desc format(JSONEachRow, '{"x" : 1, "y" : "String", "z" : "0.0.0.0" }') settings schema_inference_hints='x UInt8, z IPv4';
```

Result:
```sql
x   UInt8
y   Nullable(String)
z   IPv4
```

<Note>
If the `schema_inference_hints` is not formatted properly, or if there is a typo or a wrong datatype, etc... the whole schema_inference_hints will be ignored.
</Note>

## schema_inference_make_columns_nullable    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| UInt64Auto | 3 |



Controls making inferred types `Nullable` in schema inference.
Possible values:
 * 0 - the inferred type will never be `Nullable` (use input_format_null_as_default to control what do do with null values in this case),
 * 1 - all inferred types will be `Nullable`,
 * 2 or `auto` - the inferred type will be `Nullable` only if the column contains `NULL` in a sample that is parsed during schema inference or file metadata contains information about column nullability,
 * 3 - the inferred type nullability will match file metadata if the format has it (e.g. Parquet), always Nullable otherwise (e.g. CSV).

## schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



Controls making inferred JSON types `Nullable` in schema inference.
If this setting is enabled together with schema_inference_make_columns_nullable, inferred JSON type will be `Nullable`.

## schema_inference_mode    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| SchemaInferenceMode | default |



Mode of schema inference. 'default' - assume that all files have the same schema and schema can be inferred from any file, 'union' - files can have different schemas and the resulting schema should be the a union of schemas of all files

## show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| IdentifierQuotingRule | when_necessary |



Set the quoting rule for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query

## show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| IdentifierQuotingStyle | Backticks |



Set the quoting style for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query

## type_json_skip_duplicated_paths    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 0 |



When enabled, during parsing JSON object into JSON type duplicated paths will be ignored and only the first one will be inserted instead of an exceptio

## validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types    



| Type | Default value |
|------|---------------|
| Bool | 1 |



Validate usage of experimental and suspicious types inside nested types like Array/Map/Tuple


{/* <!--AUTOGENERATED_END--> */}
